ReadMe.md, before:

# JavaScript + TypeScript Target Runtime for ANTLR 4

[![Build & Test](https://github.com/mike-lischke/antlr4ng/actions/workflows/nodejs.yml/badge.svg?branch=master)](https://github.com/mike-lischke/antlr4ng/actions/workflows/nodejs.yml)
[![Downloads](https://img.shields.io/npm/dw/antlr4ng?color=blue)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/antlr4ng)
[![npm version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/antlr4ng?color=yellow)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/antlr4ng)


This package is a fork of the official ANTLR4 JavaScript runtime, with the following changes:

- Much improved TypeScript type definitions.
- XPath implementation.
- Vocabulary implementation.
- Complete Interval implementation.
- Consistent formatting (indentation, semicolons, spaces, etc.).
- Numerous smaller fixes (`null` instead of `undefined` and others).
- Smaller node package (no test specs or other unnecessary files).

It is (mostly) a drop-in replacement of the `antlr4` package, and can be used as such. For more information about ANTLR see www.antlr.org. Read more details about the [JavaScript](https://github.com/antlr/antlr4/blob/master/doc/javascript-target.md) and [TypeScript](https://github.com/antlr/antlr4/blob/master/doc/typescript-target.md) targets at the provided links, but keep in mind that this documentation applies to the original JS/TS target.

## Benchmarks

This runtime is constantly monitored for performance regressions. The following table shows the results of the benchmarks run on last release:

| Test | Cold Run | Warm Run|
| ---- | -------- | ------- |
| Query Collection| 8719 ms | 239 ms |
| Example File | 1031 ms | 119 ms |
| Large Inserts | 10748 ms | 10745 ms |
| Total | 20568 ms | 11122 ms |

The benchmarks consist of a set of query files, which are parsed by a MySQL parser.

## Release Notes

### 1.0.5

- Added benchmarks.
- Introduced the `IntStream` interface as the base for `CharStream` and `TokenStream`. This avoids duplicate code in the stream type definitions.
- Removed `FileStream` as a preparation to get rid of the separate package files for node and browser. If something needs to be loaded from a file, the particular environment should provide the code for that.

### 1.0.2 - 1.0.4

- Github build action
- Updated package.json
- Exported `ErrorNode`, `InputMismatchException`
- Some smaller fixes

### 1.0.1

- Added and/or replaced all copyrights to a common ANTLR version.
- Removed all individual default exports. Only the final lib exports contain both, default and non-default exports. This avoids namespace access like `antlr4.atn`. Everything is available under a top level import.
- Renamed ErrorListener to BaseErrorListener, as that is what it is actually when comparing it to the Java runtime.

### 1.0.0

- Initial release.

Commit message:

Added sub project for parser generation
- The repo includes now a sub project which can be installed as npm package for generation of ANTLR4 parsers that are compatible with this runtime.
- Removed the generated files for the benchmarks. Instead the benchmark NPM script generates the files on-the-fly using the new sub project (eat your own dog food).

ReadMe.md, after:

# JavaScript + TypeScript Target Runtime for ANTLR 4

[![Build & Test](https://github.com/mike-lischke/antlr4ng/actions/workflows/nodejs.yml/badge.svg?branch=master)](https://github.com/mike-lischke/antlr4ng/actions/workflows/nodejs.yml)
[![Downloads](https://img.shields.io/npm/dw/antlr4ng?color=blue)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/antlr4ng)
[![npm version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/antlr4ng?color=yellow)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/antlr4ng)


This package is a fork of the official ANTLR4 JavaScript runtime, with the following changes:

- Much improved TypeScript type definitions.
- XPath implementation.
- Vocabulary implementation.
- Complete Interval implementation.
- Consistent formatting (indentation, semicolons, spaces, etc.).
- Numerous smaller fixes (`null` instead of `undefined` and others).
- Smaller node package (no test specs or other unnecessary files).

It is (mostly) a drop-in replacement of the `antlr4` package, and can be used as such. For more information about ANTLR see www.antlr.org. Read more details about the [JavaScript](https://github.com/antlr/antlr4/blob/master/doc/javascript-target.md) and [TypeScript](https://github.com/antlr/antlr4/blob/master/doc/typescript-target.md) targets at the provided links, but keep in mind that this documentation applies to the original JS/TS target.

## Benchmarks

This runtime is constantly monitored for performance regressions. The following table shows the results of the benchmarks run on last release:

| Test | Cold Run | Warm Run|
| ---- | -------- | ------- |
| Query Collection| 8658 ms | 236 ms |
| Example File | 1024 ms | 117 ms |
| Large Inserts | 10612 ms | 10631 ms |
| Total | 20354 ms | 11005 ms |

The benchmarks consist of a set of query files, which are parsed by a MySQL parser.

## Release Notes

### 1.0.6 - 1.0.7

- Fixed recognizer token type and rule index maps.
- Fixed `getTokens()` in `BufferedTokenStream`.
- Added new peer dependency `antlr4ng-cli`, which is the tool to generate parser files compatible with this runtime.

### 1.0.5

- Added benchmarks.
- Introduced the `IntStream` interface as the base for `CharStream` and `TokenStream`. This avoids duplicate code in the stream type definitions.
- Removed `FileStream` as a preparation to get rid of the separate package files for node and browser. If something needs to be loaded from a file, the particular environment should provide the code for that.

### 1.0.2 - 1.0.4

- Github build action
- Updated package.json
- Exported `ErrorNode`, `InputMismatchException`
- Some smaller fixes

### 1.0.1

- Added and/or replaced all copyrights to a common ANTLR version.
- Removed all individual default exports. Only the final lib exports contain both, default and non-default exports. This avoids namespace access like `antlr4.atn`. Everything is available under a top level import.
- Renamed ErrorListener to BaseErrorListener, as that is what it is actually when comparing it to the Java runtime.

### 1.0.0

- Initial release.
